And how come we can never show these recordings later?
Oh, Edward, I think that's my fault. So I will be applying myself to that in the next couple of weeks.
Okay, it'd be so nice to share it. Yes.
Daniel will pass over to you. Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you so much, Edward. That was lovely devotional.
It felt like doing a production of the goddess, the way you described going up on the stage, and you're so right, we don't have to make it complicated at all, because we have the vision of the goddess in our hearts and minds.
So, actually, that was lovely. I really enjoyed that. And in a way, it was, as Antoinette said, the innocence with which you offered the prayers and suggestions reminded me of Douglas.
Because when we all think about Douglas, our lovely brother, who is now on that stage, I can picture him still rummaging with the microphones, you know, setting it up as I first saw him innocently getting on with it, rolling up his sleeves, right then, you know, absolutely there.
It's like Ganesha, you know, Ganesha-like quality, but beside the goddess and I think along with the, you know, yogis like Kay and Patricia, who are on this call Antoinette will, you know, remember those very early meetings.
I attended a meeting was in the Friends Meeting House in London, Hampstead, with the blessing to meet Shrimadaji for the first time, but it was really Douglas was probably one of the first yogis I became aware of because of this aspect of him being there setting up the mic,
rummaging around setting it all up and then of course lovely Kay was there I believe and Chaya, Patricia, of course, but I do remember this sort of innocence, you know, gravitas that he had so that was my first thought of picturing Doug Dougie, as we came to know him
and then indeed in honor of that, I had a rummage in my cupboard, and I found all of the, all of these early cassettes that a lot of the yogis will recognize that's Douglas's writing so he was in charge, not only of recording with great devotion and attention,
all of those early speeches but managing the reproduction painstakingly writing the labels and distributing so he was our, you know, port of call in those early meetings we would go to him and get the cassettes.
So that was my first thought. How amazing is that when you talk about the ether, that it was this Ganesha like character there by Shrimadaji adjusting the microphone and I wonder who he was in his past life.
What did you just brought him there for that moment. Yeah, absolutely. That was my first thought then the, the second thought, this is really I don't have any big memories it's more about I said to Caroline it's more about giving the context and flavor
and speaking from what sort of a being, you know, the impression was those early meetings, when we were blessed, as you know you will have remembered and maybe read stories or seen early, because tapes.
And Shrimadaji would after the realization herself, come out into the audience and work on every single seeker so not a single seeker would would go until they had had that darshan that she would come one by one and us yogis would be, you know, so called
and working on them and then she would come and say right what's the chakra what's catching and of course she knew she was checking. Did we know. So we'd sort of mumble, you know, maybe her heart and she'll know that's that's you, it's for shitty you know so she was
very much teaching us.
So whenever there was a particularly tricky customer, as we seem to get more of as I'm sure perhaps Antoinette and Kay and Patricia will attest to, there seemed to be quite a lot more extreme cases in those very, you know, real heavy heavy seekers as if all the
seekers were all gurus you know the all the seekers were pouring in. So we had really literally people you know shaking shivering.
You know, remember working on one fella and I was working behind him and he was just lifting up his hands like that I said, could you put just maybe rest your hands on your going I can't I can't be going back you know rolling or it was quite dynamic process
and the seekers. So whenever there was someone really really really heavy, you know, sweating and this all the yogis dramatically would come, and she'd always say, Douglas.
So, he was the go to for sorting and working on these extreme cases. And he said, right, you know, roll up his sleeves much in the same way he would if he was sorting out the microphones rummaging around he would just write, okay, you know, what's going
on here and he'd be you know my son, no fear, just open heart complete dedication and attention and very acute vibrational sensitivity. So I remember mother telling us you see, Douglas doesn't think, so he doesn't catch.
That was an interesting lesson to the power of thoughtless awareness.
So that gives you a flavor of the meetings the the next memory I have of Douglas was at a marriage ceremony that maybe won't mention who's because they're no longer it's not such a, you know, to put attention on that.
But it was at a yogis flat or rather the flat, the rather luxury flat of the parents of some yogis and she manages was there celebrating this marriage, and we ended up all of us, staying the night.
Of course, I'm being known to that yogis parents who are on holiday.
And so so many people were there unexpectedly you know that there was, I think, dinner catered for but in the morning there was no breakfast so you know and Douglas very sweetly.
Oh, no problem. I will make croissants for everyone to remember that.
The most complex thing you could possibly imagine to just whip up for I don't know how many people 3040 was cross songs because he done the code and blur cookery course so but no, no, no fear no problem to start to make the pastry and we all know how
the butter goes into cross songs but it was it was, you know, endless I'm sure there was flower probably in every nook and cranny of that kitchen it was a tremendous chaos and mess but it was just this delightful spontaneity of him making cross
songs for everyone's breakfast.
So the.
I think that probably is my anecdotes.
It's more of a personal note to end.
Maybe you some of you will have met my mom and known her thanks to my mom that I she was a great seeker, the great open heart and through her seeking that my family came to size yoga.
And sadly through perhaps damaged chakras and past commas, how do we know why but she suffered from a serious cancer and you know died.
I was 24, you know, I can't remember the date but I was 24 so I'm 54 now so that's many years ago. So what I do remember what I'll never forget the great kindness of Douglas was at the time she was being treated in the Royal Free Hospital
in London. Douglas happened to be working there as a, I believe as a Porter, perhaps, you know, helping in the hospital just bringing you know medical supplies around.
So, like an angel, without being asked without making a fuss. There wasn't a day that went by that my mom was in the hospital and sure other yogis to.
He would make a point to stop by the ward and just sit beside her bed and hold her hand and give vibrations.
You know that's at a time when I think there was a bit more fear and I'll get caught up you know holding a hand of someone who's got cancer.
So that just speaks to this huge heart and wonderful saint.
And of course it makes me emotional for obvious reason thinking about it but I, you know, I'm tremendously grateful for all the love for the cassettes for everything so thank you, Douglas, you know, God bless you, I know God is is already blessing you
and thank you, Caroline for giving me this opportunity to share a couple of memories.
Jai Shree Mataji.
Gosh, thank you, Danny and thank you for being so personal at the end, and giving us such a beautiful insight into, like say his fearlessness
and his complete trust in mother and himself, which is a huge thing for all of us I think.
Wonderful stories. Thank you so much.
And Fergie can we pass across to you.
Should we go to Kay? Sorry Kay.
Hello.
Oh hi, can you hear me?
Yes, clear, clear, very clear Kay, thank you.
Oh good, it's working.
Yes.
Yeah, I remember, I remember the questions I think that's kind of my first memory Douglas was the, was that that weekend, and I remember being there and, and
at that time there were lots of people that were like damaged and, you know, you were there sort of, you know, with mother there the sort of total divinity and yet at the same time you'd be surrounded by people that were
some sort of quite weird and quite strange and I think I was probably one of them as well.
We had all had our problems but I just remember sort of feeling that weekend, you know, kind of a bit weird and a bit, I don't know, feeling all sorts of things and then that morning, that morning coming down and, and there was Douglas making
coffee and it was also kind of normal and, and it just, I don't know, it just really did something for me it just really sort of opened my heart and, and, yeah, it was just, that was sort of my first memory of him, and, and then after that, he would, he would
come down to Brighton to stay with us sometimes and he would come with Devyani and quite often to fix our cars so we had a, we had an old banger of a car that was always breaking down and so he would turn up to fix it.
And it would always be at a really good, at the right time so I remember one time he came and we decided we'd have a pooja and we hadn't had many poojas at that point I think in Brighton, you know, we didn't, you know, we might have gone to them in London
but we, for some reason we decided we were going to have a pooja and, but we were all so serious about it, we were just, you know, we, we just sort of, you know, we thought we would get it wrong and we, you know, there was not, there wasn't a lot of joy, you know,
we were just all so worried about getting it right that we were completely missing the point but, you know, just very sort of tense I suppose all the negativity in us was kind of, you know, kind of jumping about and so we were, we were there we were getting ready for this pooja,
all very, all very sort of serious and then, and then Douglas and Deviani turned up just as we were about to start the pooja and they came in and they did everything so sort of differently than, you know, we had this set way that we thought we had to do it so they came in just kind of did it, you know, there was no sort of protocol at all really they just, they just completely did it from their heart and by the end of it we, we just all felt so sort of full of bliss and,
and realised that we'd, you know, that we'd made it into such a serious thing that it, you know, that it didn't need to be so it would always turn up and kind of put us, put us back on the right track.
And another memory I've got was when, when Sri Mataji came to Brighton to a public programme.
And there was, there was a lady there who was very argumentative and she sort of became, she started becoming worse as the meeting went along, and so we were all very kind of, you know, what are we going to do you know this is awful what we're going to do and Douglas, just sort of had, he had Mother's shawl, so he, he, he just took the shawl and so just went, went behind everyone and sort of through the chairs and, and sort of unknown to him.
And sort of unknown to this lady he put Mother's shawl under her chair, and she, she sat and she started to sort of twitch a bit and then she just got up and ran out.
So, again, it was, we were all kind of thinking and worrying about it and Douglas, Douglas just went and put the shawl there and she was gone.
And, yeah, so that was, that was another memory that's always stuck in my mind and, yeah, he came to, he came down to Brighton one time because we'd arranged to go to the, to the Friends of the Western Buddhist Order so we were going to go and sort of tell them about
Sajo and, you know, we sort of had plans that we'd go and give them realisation and, and I'm just lucky that Douglas came because when we got there they were, they were actually quite, they weren't the easiest people to, to, to talk to really.
And so we went in, they were very, you know, kind of quite, again, they were quite serious, you know, about their, about, about everything and there was the man in charge was, he, you know, very, very important man, he called himself, Raja Deva, the King of the Davis.
That was, that was his Buddhist name that you had. But Douglas started calling him Roger Davis.
So, and everyone that came up, he'd say, Oh, look, this is, this is Roger, you know.
So by the end of it, this, this, this, this, Roger David, he'd just had enough and he just sort of disappeared.
And that was, yeah, that was, that was one of the, yeah, it was, I just laugh, it all just always makes me laugh. And, you know, so, so he would come down, they would come and stay with us quite, you know, quite often for a while, just sort of while we needed it
Sort of as we, as we found our feet and, you know, our collective grew and we became stronger then.
Yeah, then we didn't see so much of him and I think, I think we've got a better car as well so, so you didn't need to come and fix the car. But, yeah, so that's, that's it really, that's my, my memories of Douglas, and like we're thinking, Douglas.
I'm really in the UK.
Just everybody, just the love that came from him, the love everybody has from him because obviously I've come into South Yoga a lot, a lot later.
And I have these stories are amazing in revealing what it was like at that time and what an extraordinary man he was.
And how, yeah,
just embodying what we'd all want to be, or what I'd typically aim to be like and to be so light with people and yet so connected. And, yeah, with all humility just quietly working things out, it's wonderful.
Thank you.
So much humour, so much joy. Yeah.
I think that Fergie is now.
Yeah, there's everybody else's there Caroline before Fergie.
You're on mute, sorry.
Oh, so somebody else can go.
No, I was just gonna say, I don't know who the LGG pad is.
Everybody else is kind of accounted for. I don't know who that is.
But other than that, no, Fergie there's nobody.
Over to you Fergie there. Yeah, so just gonna say that
I mentioned the first time we had this session that I came across Douglas at Chelsea Road, when I wanted to get some talks of Srimati and then he supplied those.
And then later on, I was wondering, I was wondering to myself, why is nobody recording like Douglas, Srimati, like they call them private recordings but to me, if she's saying something, and it's, you know, good, it should be recorded so I picked up from Douglas, that is good to record.
So I went out and bought myself. In those days, the top of the range gadget was a Sony Walkman, but that was a huge amount of money but the next one down was a Aiwa.
So I bought one of those and started making my own private recordings of Srimati because I picked it up from Douglas that you don't have to, it doesn't have to be an official, you know, that you needed permission to do that so the different recordings I got,
I've been slowly digitizing them from the cassette and then sending them to Amruta. And so, he encouraged me to do that and later on, I thought to myself, why not get a recorded video.
So I bought a little gadget, which looked like a phone but was a video. So I started doing video recordings of Srimati, which I also sent off. And later on, we started, all started working together because in Srimati's house, she asked me, would you, would you like to come and work on her house of Brompton Square.
So I said yes. So, and then I discovered from Pat that Douglas did a plumbing course. So we stayed in different places. So what Douglas used to do, he used to because he was a plumber, he used to go, we had a housing association.
So whenever we got properties, we used to have them for minimum six months and they always allowed us to stay longer. So Douglas used to go in, used to go and help him, used to switch on the gas, make sure everything's all working.
And different, also different houses Srimati worked on.
Douglas also helped out with that. So we had a little team where we would go around and do things. So as well as doing the recordings, he was very good at building work. And we used to work together with Pat, also used to do plumbing.
And it was only recently I discovered I was living in, I moved to London, back again. I didn't know that Douglas, that my local hospital to go to was the Royal Free and silly as now, I didn't realise that Douglas was there. Otherwise I would have popped in and said hi myself.
And the other thing is I realised that over the years, many people have been changing Srimati's talks around. So there's a need to preserve those cassettes and take a photograph of each one of them with Douglas's handwriting because Srimati gave over 500 talks in England.
There's still over 100 missing. So we need to have slowly digitise. So I've been encouraging people not to throw their cassettes away, because we need to also keep copies of those cassettes for the future, because not many people know that Amruta, lots of the recordings have been done as a MP3.
Because it's smaller file size. But if there's any discrepancy or you can't hear anything, you can't do anything with it. So in England, we need to be able to continue Douglas's work. And as well as those recordings, we need to take photocopies of the front and back of the actual cassette.
Because sometimes what Douglas used to do is add, if the talk wasn't completely full up, he would add some things to it. So there may be some extras on there.
And I remember one time when somebody bought a cassette, but it was just silent on the one side. But it was perfect, because people still got into meditation.
So what he started is continuing. And I've actually found a photograph of, which I'll send next time.
This is, you probably can't see, but this is a photograph of a wedding, where Douglas and Deviani were there. And the person who took over from Douglas with video, with someone called Nick Clark, he started doing the video for Paul Winter.
And just for the record, most people know, but some people won't know, that Brighton, Shamashii says, the Muladhara of UK. So the people doing the actual video continued that sort of legacy to carry on.
And we all had lots of interaction with each other, told some stories before, but he helped me out a lot with many things. And I sent before a list, I'll send another one to the community.
I've spoken to you, Cassie. They said they want to carry on digitizing, but the thing which is missing is the transcriptions, because many people when they listen to Shamashii's talk, they can't hear what she's saying sometimes.
So we need more UK sardio who understands Shamashii's voice. Because in Sheffield in 85, Shamashii said, each country should transcribe their own talks. So we've got lots of retired people now, which we can get them involved in that.
And then in that way, more and more people can benefit. And I did some research. I've got another photo here. It's probably been sent before. Douglas is in this photo. This is the first.
That's his head there you can see. This is a havan with Shamashii, I think 1974, 75, Shamashii's first house. And the man in the photograph, the Pujari, his son has started meditating.
And he gave us, I mentioned before, a room in one of his shops for one year for realization. So at the moment, there's quite a few people coming back to the collective, which is also good.
So I think that there's not much to say because we all have interacted with each other over the years. And we never know until we speak to somebody else. And they say how that person benefited them and each other.
That's it for now.
The work that Douglas has started, as you brilliantly illustrated, is how he's passed it on to others like yourself. But who in the UK do you know is organizing the transcription of the tapes? Or is there anybody organizing it?
I would say it's what you call, unofficially, I've been told it's me. Because I approached UCASI when we had the seminar in Wales. I approached UCASI and I said, look, I don't know what you're doing, but is there, what's the official, you know,
we know that you're doing it. But I said, I know I'm doing it. But is there anybody else who's like in charge? Because what I mean is UCASI, sorry, people think that Amruta has all Shumash's talks, it doesn't.
So what I mean is in 2009, even if you had money, somebody said to me, they had lots of money and they want to buy Shumash's talks. And so in 2009, there was only 127 videos you could buy.
Even though on my computer I had like 1000. But I can't. So there are people just individually doing it. Yes, people are sending to Amruta if you find them. But there's no official buddy in charge.
But what I mean is I've been asked, I have to put a message out saying it is not like done and dusted. There are still talks missing and people like I've spoken to Antoinette, I've spoken to Gregoire, I've spoken to different people and we've managed to get their talks
from them, which have some of the missing English ones. So there are people like Patricia Perunza, she gave me some talks. I think Antoinette has got some. People don't know that they've got a gold mine.
Just waiting there to be digitized. What I mean is the talks are so fragile that if you, some of them are over 40 years old from the early 70s. So if you was to put them in machine, they would be chewed up.
So what we do when we collect them. There's a somebody in Davy Productions who is based in Austria, and they, we try and get them to them, and they know how to look after them.
So, even, so what we, what I'm saying is that even though people have them, unless they're played regularly, one side starts seeping through to the other.
A lot of this, I just said a lot of these tapes, and I gave them all to Alain Pereira because I was concerned that they would get damaged now. So I just kept a few for souvenirs. Like I have, I have about maybe 20 or something like that in a box by my old, but I don't play them because I don't have a tape recorder anymore.
But otherwise, I had really a big number and I gave them all already about like four years ago something five years ago I give them away, give them away in a big box. Yeah.
So it's gradually working out it is working out. Yes, yeah, yeah. No, no, what I mean is, I was at St. Martins Lane one evening.
About nine o'clock leaving and someone said, Oh, I've just put all my old cassettes in the bin. In one of those black orange. So I said, please, when you go home, take them out of the bin, and I'll come around your house tomorrow.
So he had several hundred this are Jogi, I went around to his house, and I counted them out and we got about maybe five or six, which nobody had.
You are.
Yes, I'm technically stupid but I've managed. Good evening everybody sorry I'm late I couldn't even get onto the zoom call but I'm proud of myself that I've made it late, the late K McHugh.
So you've all had a little chit chat about Douglas already.
Yes, yes there's been some few memories Daniel shared a few memories. And the other K shared a few memories.
Right, so did Douglas, I mean, Fergie, but it would be lovely if you had something to. Yes, because he lived quite near Patricia and I Patricia has Patricia contributed. I see she's here with us.
She says she has no microphone but Patricia, are you sure you don't have a microphone.
She probably she doesn't know she on her mobile. Yes, she's on a mobile, and she says she's sure she doesn't have a microphone.
Okay, maybe she needs to unmute like I did, which, you know, eventually when pointed out, I can see myself.
Patricia, you know, Patricia would would remember Douglas coming around to our flat, you know, quite often.
He was such an innocent person he had such connection qualities about him so innocent in his way.
And talking about the recordings. We were always happy because once he did, once he did the master recordings and he started doing copies, he would pop around to our place and we'd always get the first copy off, off the, off the presses that were so we were
very happy with the fact that he was living in our vicinity and could come around and, and eat us out of house and home but bring the tapes.
So, he was yes incredibly innocent and I was, he used to ride a motorbike I think before he came to Siraj, and I used to, I was teaching him to drive a car, which was an interesting experience because I was quite surprised at his lack of traffic
knowledge considering that he'd already ridden a motorbike.
But he was very funny because he'd stop at the intersections and I'd say good, very good stop and then look and then he just go he said okay I've stopped now I can go.
And then he'd say, why is that man shaking his fist at me and because you've just pulled out in front of him.
For him just to stop was what he had to do stop I'm stopping and now I'm going. So it's very sweet and very innocent.
Also, he, he was a fitter and turner I think is that the is that was, was that his.
I think that was his profession which is sort of not actually a plumber but he was the closest. We had to a plumber. And I don't know whether I'm repeating stories now but when we lived in Serb and ashram she mother G wanted the plumbing check because
she had lots of leaking. So she sent Douglas down into the basement to check all the leaks I remember this one incident was very funny because he was down there and she must use looking down the, the hole in the floor, and he would pop his head back
up like a little gopher, and he'd go, turn the tap on now.
And then he'd tap on, and then he'd pop back down again, and then he'd come up and say, Wonderful, only 17 leaks you know.
She would laugh, and then he would pop his head back down again and she'd say, you're very brave character.
Douglas you're very brave.
So, yes, he fixed all the leaks and fun and did a bathroom up for CP and that ashram.
Yeah, he was.
Yeah.
He was not haunted by anything. He was great.
What are the stories can I remember.
I remember sitting on the front seat of the bus in India with you. When he was telling me about. He'd come that year to get married he was going to get married no matter what and he was just completely surrendered.
And yes, he was an excited about getting married, telling me about it on the front seat of a bumpy old Indian bus.
That's my first memory of him actually.
I thought how sweet he was then.
What are the stories I'm sure Patricia could remember much more than me.
Yes, and I'm sure that you know you've all heard the stories about when David troll first rang and how sensitive he was a vibrations so incredibly optimistic and cheerful all the time.
Yeah, great character. Also, as Fergie was referring to this great job he did with with the recordings.
You know, it will be it will.
It will go on for thousands of years or, or the, the benefit of these people like Mr. Pie, who did the first recordings in India with his huge real to real tapes he used to take along to the programs, which was almost as big as he was.
You know, we should be ever grateful for Mr. Pie and for Douglas for their dedication.
I'm sure you've probably heard all these stories about Douglas before.
No, I don't think so.
Such a sweet guy.
Yes, very much, Ganesha qualities.
Okay, I think, just alluded to a story that perhaps not everybody has heard of when David pro and early yogi had seen the yoga today at in the barbershop number and he David phoned out, and then Douglas answered the phone, maybe you want to tell of that.
Nobody's mentioned that story I thought that was.
So is that one already told. Yeah.
I'm not sure it might have been told last time but I can't remember so by all means tell it again. Okay.
Well, I wasn't present but I've heard, you know, that people have said that when David rang up, you know, asking very partially about, you know, inquiring about coming to the programs and things because I think as I understood it, they weren't really supposed
to look into other yoga, yoga and meditation when they were in TM, but what impressed David apparently was the fact that Douglas had asked you in the conversation, oh do you do TM and it said, How do you know and he Douglas says, because my hands are burning.
Let's watch his staff.
David's gone. I don't know how he would have known that. Oh, my burning hands.
I think that's probably why David came along because he was impressed by Douglas's knowledge of what he, what he was into. Yeah.
And you couldn't get people like further apart on the spectrum of society is very simple basic Douglas and very sophisticated David.
But you know, who knows how people are drawn into so hard, drawn into mother's feet.
It's a pity Patricia hasn't got her mic working.
I've got this message saying she's got a written short tribute, and she would email it so I'm checking my email but it hasn't come through so I'm not sure Patricia.
If it's going to come now or later that you would like someone to read it, or if it's something you'd prefer in a written form. Well actually Patricia, you could put you could.
How long is it Do you think you could copy and paste it into the chat.
She's just going to do it later.
This is in the chat.
Okay, just, just going to just written it perhaps by hand and it's going to be typed, so it'd be something to look forward to.
Okay, I think I'm going to stop the recording.